# overall implementation
We had several .html files (with Jinja in some of the pages to display information like particular events) for each of the webpages we wanted on the website, along with a general layout.html and apology.html (for a consistent appearance and displaying error messages respectively).
To connect all of these pages and make a dynamic website where we did different things based on user responses, we had a python program (also utilizing Flask) that had a route for each of the different pages (mostly based on the GET and POST methods).
We also decided to have a stylesheet that we made using CSS to make our website more aesthetic.
To keep track of all the information about a user as well as any events they entered, we used SQL and made two tables in cal.db, a users table and an events table. We also had a helpers.py file that we put functions like the weather lookup (using the weather API) in.

# login/register
When the user registers, their username is checked against other users in the SQL users table to ensure that the username is not already taken and their password is hashed to ensure privacy. The password confirmation is checked against the original password to ensure that the user inputs the same password twice.
When the user logs in, their username is checked against the users in the SQL users table to make sure the user exists, and then the inputted password is hashed to make sure it matches the hashed password of the user in the SQL table.
The logout app.route simply clears the session of the current user and redirects them to the login page.

# home screen
The website was designed with the user experience in mind. The title "The Yale Weekly" stays at the top left-hand corner as the user switches pages, as well as the titles of the various html pages. This was done by a general layout.html file that shows the headers only if the user is logged in, or else it just shows the login and register options. If a new user registers, they are prompted to enter a unique username, a password, a confirmation of that password, and their local city. This is so that when the user registers and is brought to the home page, they are shown the local weather of the city indicated via an argument to a function in helpers.py that accesses a weather API. We also included a background image of Yale, which also serves as the icon presented with the website title. The user is also greeted by the username they input for a more personalized feel. We included in the home page a message that shows the users the events they have for that specific day by accessing the user-specific SQL table of events. The date is shown with words by javascript in the home.html file that goes through an array of weekdays and months.

# calendars
The calendar page shows users just the events that they have for the current week. At the top, the user is informed of the dates of the current week, as well as the current weekday. The table draws from the SQL table of events specific to the user. The dates of the week are displayed using python code in application.py that determines the date of the first and last day of the current week. The current weekday is displayed via javascript similar to the home page. The calendar.html file includes jinja that goes through each events and if the event is indicated as important, each item in the table will be red, otherwise each item will be black. This is meant to draw the user's attention to what they indicated as more important for that week. The events are ordered chronologically (with the weekday listed first) so that the user can easily get a sense of how busy their schedules are for a particular day.
Also, having the calendar just be on a weekly basis can help the user more effectively take on their tasks for just that week, instead of being overwhelmed with every single event all at once.
The monthly calendar serves as an overview for the user to have an idea of the dates. The arrows beside the calendar allow the user to scroll through the months of the year, and the "reset" button at the top right returns users to the current date. This is all done using javascript methods that are activated when the user clicks the arrows, dates, or reset button. The javascript for the calendar is kept within the html file to avoid confusion and keep it separate.

# view all events
The view all events page allows users to see all the events they have ever entered in a table format similar to that of the calendar page. However, it does not show the day of the week, but includes a column called "entered" that allows users to see the timestamp in which they entered the event into their calendar. The timestamp is added via a SQL UPDATE call when the user adds a new event.

# adding/deleting events
The add new event page lets users indicate all necessary information for their event. It includes a calendar for them to toggle through and click on a specific date, as well as a clock to indicate the start and end time. This is done by defining the type in the newevent.html. The weekday is determined by a python method that splits up the date and uses the datetime weekday function to determine the day of the week that the date falls on. This weekday is then added to the weekday column in the SQL events table. When the submit button is pressed, the event is added to the SQL events table and the user is brought to the updated "view all events" page.
The delete event page allows users to type in the event they want to delete, which is inputted into the python app.route. Then, the SQL table is updated so that events under that name are deleted for that specific user. The SQL events table is then updated so that it shows only the events not deleted. The user is redirected when they click the delete button (post request) to the view all events page, where the updated events are passed.

The apology function is called throughout the program, with the reason for error inputted as the argument. Then, when the user makes an error, they are brought to the apology.html page.
